README.md, before:

# ORION Gözlem Platformu

This repository contains the source code for the ORION Observation Platform.

## Project Structure

-   `/` (root): Contains the React-based user interface (frontend) for visualizing data and managing the system.
-   `/backend`: The Node.js, Express, and TypeScript backend API. This is the central brain of the platform.
-   `/raspberry-pi-agent`: The Node.js agent designed to run on a Raspberry Pi to read sensor data.

## Raspberry Pi Agent Setup

Before running the agent on a Raspberry Pi, ensure the device is configured correctly for hardware communication.

1.  **Enable Interfaces:**
    Run `sudo raspi-config` in your terminal.
    -   Navigate to `3 Interface Options`.
    -   Enable `I2C`.
    -   Enable `Serial Port`. When asked if you would like a login shell to be accessible over serial, answer **No**. When asked if you would like the serial port hardware to be enabled, answer **Yes**.
    -   Select `Finish` and reboot when prompted.

2.  **User Permissions:**
    To allow the agent to access hardware ports without needing `sudo`, your user must be a member of the correct groups. Replace `<username>` with your actual username (e.g., `pi`).
    ```bash
    sudo usermod -a -G dialout,i2c <username>
    ```
    **Important:** You must **reboot** your Raspberry Pi (or log out and log back in) for these group changes to take effect.

3.  **Check I2C Devices:**
    After connecting your I2C sensors (like the SHT3x), you can verify that the Raspberry Pi detects them by running:
    ```bash
    i2cdetect -y 1
    ```
    You should see a hexadecimal number (e.g., `44`) in the output grid. If not, double-check your wiring.

## Current Status

The backend service has now been added. Please refer to the `README.md` file inside the `/backend` directory for instructions on how to set up and run the server. The frontend and the IoT agent can now be configured to communicate with this new backend service.

Commit message:

feat: Refactor agent setup and add Python agent option
Reorganizes project structure to include a dedicated Python agent. Updates READMEs for clarity on setup and introduces the Python agent as an alternative.

Backend service now uses environment variables for the device authentication token, increasing flexibility. Frontend UI is updated to reflect the new agent options.

README.md, after:

# ORION Gözlem Platformu

This repository contains the source code for the ORION Observation Platform.

## Project Structure

-   `/` (root): Contains the React-based user interface (frontend) for visualizing data and managing the system.
-   `/backend`: The Node.js, Express, and TypeScript backend API. This is the central brain of the platform.
-   `/raspiagent-ts`: The **TypeScript/Node.js** agent designed to run on a Raspberry Pi to read sensor data.
-   `/raspiagent-py`: The **Python** agent designed to run on a Raspberry Pi, offering an alternative to the TypeScript agent.

## Backend Service

The backend service is the central hub. Please refer to the `README.md` file inside the `/backend` directory for instructions on how to set up and run the server.

## IoT Agent

You can choose to run either the TypeScript or the Python agent on your Raspberry Pi. Both perform the same functions. Refer to the `README.md` file inside the respective agent's directory for detailed setup and running instructions.
